**Nombre tentativo del Curso:** Course “Bioinformatics for Biological and Environmental Sciences”**Razón y Objetivo del curso:**This is a course developed for biologists and ecologists that will cover computational analysis of molecular sequence data.  Computational analysis of these data is a valuable tool to better understand biological processes and facilitates new discoveries. Bioinformatics can be considered a way of providing meaning (by means of computer algorithms) to the thousands upon thousands of genetic material continually being sequenced. In this course we will primarily focus on the resources for non-model organisms and will review brieftly on biology (ie reviewing central dogma) and techniques (ie, gene expression analysis), and spend most of the time in computer science (ie sequence database, pairwise sequence comparisons, RNA-Seq and RAD-Seq analysis).  Various genomic resources that are publicly available will be reviewed along with web-based and stand-alone software that is used for analysis and functional annotation. Furthermore, we will examine modern techniques for gene expression and epigenetic analysis including advantages, disadvantages, and proper post-experiment processing.**Razón y Objetivo de docencia:**Formar recursos humanos altamente capacitados en el análisis de secuencias genómicas y transcriptómicas en las áreas de Biología de la conservación, Acuacultura, Ecología Marina, Biomedicina, Ciencias Ambientales y otras afines, para dar respuestas integrales a diversas preguntas en el ámbito de las Ciencias biológicas y ambientales que pueden ser abordadas desde la perspectiva genómica.**Fecha tentativa:**  Noviembre**Intructor principal:**Dr. Steven Roberts de la Universidad de Washington en Seattle (se anexa CV resumido).